Revise 2027 addressable LEDs documentation for Systemcore (#3195)
wpilibsuite/frc-docs: source/docs/software/hardware-apis/misc/addressable-leds.rst

# Addressable LEDs

> LED strips have been commonly used by teams for several years for a variety of reasons. They allow teams to debug robot functionality from the audience, provide a visual marker for their robot, and can simply add some visual appeal. These are also referred to as NeoPixels as well. WPILib has an API for controlling WS2812, WS2812B, WS2815, and other LEDs that share the same protocol (WS2811, SK6812, etc.) with their data pin connected to the SIGNAL pin of a SMART I/O connector.

Reviewer: Neopixel is a specific brand name, the way it's called out here feels odd.

Before adding more LED types we should verify what works on systemcore. Unlike the roboRIO interface, systemcore doesn't currently have a way to adjust the LED data timing.

Author: mostly the neopixel callout was to avoid confusion with the previously linked neopixel uberguide

iirc most of the ws281x and their clones should work with the same code but obviously people with systemcores can do more testing to see what works and what doesn't

> LED strips have been commonly used by teams for several years for a variety of reasons. They allow teams to debug robot functionality from the audience, provide a visual marker for their robot, and can simply add some visual appeal. These are also referred to as NeoPixels as well. WPILib has an API for controlling WS2812, WS2812B, WS2815, and other LEDs that share the same protocol (WS2811, SK6812, etc.) with their data pin connected to the SIGNAL pin of a SMART I/O connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LED strips have been commonly used by teams for several years for a variety of reasons. They allow teams to debug robot functionality from the audience, provide a visual marker for their robot, and can simply add some visual appeal. These are also referred to as NeoPixels. WPILib has an API for controlling WS2812, WS2812B, WS2815, and other LEDs that share the same protocol (WS2811, SK6812, etc.) with their data pin connected to the SIGNAL pin of a SMART I/O connector.
```

.. note:: LEDs can be controlled through this API while the robot is disabled.

.. seealso:: For detailed information about powering and best practices for addressable LEDs, see the [Adafruit NeoPixel Überguide](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-neopixel-uberguide/powering-neopixels).

.. note:: WS281x LEDs (with the exception of the WS2815, see below warning) are designed for **5V**, but Systemcore ports output **3.3V**. This may cause issues with some LED strips, and a logic level shifter is needed, such as the [Adafruit Pixel Shifter](https://www.adafruit.com/product/6066).

> .. note:: The 300-500 ohm data line resistor and large 1000uF capactitor across the power pins are highly recommended. Also, use a VRM to power the LEDs, with the *grounds* tied together.

Author: ```suggestion
.. note:: The 300-500 ohm data line resistor and large 1000uF capactitor across the power pins are highly recommended. Also, use an external 5V regulator to power the LEDs, with the *grounds* tied together.
```

.. warning:: WS2815 LEDs (and maybe other products as well, **check the label**) are designed for **12V** but have **5V** data (see above note). The **backup line on the first strip** needs to be connected to **ground**, **not** connected to the data line despite what other guides may say.

## Instantiating the AddressableLED Object

> You first create an ``AddressableLED`` object that takes the SMART I/O port as an argument. It *must* be a SMART I/O header on the Systemcore. Then you set the number of LEDs located on your LED strip, which can be done with the ``setLength()`` function.

Author: ```suggestion
You first create an ``AddressableLED`` object that takes the SMART I/O port as an argument. Then you set the number of LEDs located on your LED strip, which can be done with the ``setLength()`` function.
```

# Addressable LEDs

LED strips have been commonly used by teams for several years for a variety of reasons. They allow teams to debug robot functionality from the audience, provide a visual marker for their robot, and can simply add some visual appeal. These are also referred to as NeoPixels. WPILib has an API for controlling WS2812, WS2812B, WS2815, and other LEDs that share the same protocol (WS2811, SK6812, etc.) with their data pin connected to the SIGNAL pin of a SMART I/O connector.
.. note:: This library only supports WS2812B-compliant addressable LED products (strips, bars, matrixes,etc.)

> HUB-75 LED matrixes, DotStar LEDs, and other types of addressable LED products are not supported by this API. In addition to that, some WS2812B-compliant strips with different timings (WS2815, etc.) may not work.

Author: ```suggestion
Unlike the roboRIO, the Systemcore supports multiple addressable LED products at once.

HUB-75 LED matrixes, DotStar LEDs, and other types of addressable LED products are not supported by this API. In addition to that, some WS2812B-compliant strips with different timings (WS2815, etc.) may not work.
```

# Addressable LEDs

> Addressable LEDs have been commonly used by teams for several years for a variety of reasons. LED strips are the most common, but other form factors such as matrixes and bars are available as well.

Author: ```suggestion
Addressable LEDs have been commonly used by teams for several years for a variety of reasons.

LED strips are the most common, but other form factors such as matrixes and bars are available as well, so your code will work even if you are not using an LED strip.
```

Timings:

T0H: 375ns
T0L: 875ns
T1H: 750ns
T1L: 500ns

.. seealso:: For detailed information about powering and best practices for addressable LEDs, see the [Adafruit NeoPixel Überguide](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-neopixel-uberguide/powering-neopixels).

.. note:: WS281x LEDs (with the exception of the WS2815, see below warning) are designed for **5V**, but Systemcore ports output **3.3V**. This may cause issues with some LED strips, and a logic level shifter is needed, such as the [Adafruit Pixel Shifter](https://www.adafruit.com/product/6066).

.. note:: The 300-500 Ohm data line resistor and large 1000μF capacitor across the power pins are recommended, especially with larger quantities of LEDs. Also, use an external 5V regulator to power the LEDs, with the **grounds** tied together.

.. warning:: WS2815 LEDs (and maybe other products as well, **check the label**) are designed for **12V** but have **5V** data (see above note). The **backup line on the first strip** needs to be connected to **ground**, **not** connected to the data line despite what other guides may say.

## Instantiating the AddressableLED Object

> You first create an ``AddressableLED`` object that takes the SMART I/O port as an argument. Then you set the number of LEDs located on your LED strip, which can be done with the ``setLength()`` function.

Author: ```suggestion
You first create an ``AddressableLED`` object that takes the SMART I/O port as an argument. Then you set the number of LEDs that are connected, which can be done with the ``setLength()`` function.
```

changed wording a bit

# Addressable LEDs

Addressable LEDs have been commonly used by teams for several years for a variety of reasons. LED strips are the most common, but other form factors such as matrixes and bars are available as well.

They allow teams to debug robot functionality from the audience, provide a visual marker for their robot, and can simply add some visual appeal. WPILib has an API for controlling WS2812, WS2812B, and potentially other LEDs that share the same protocol with their data pin connected to the SIGNAL pin of a SMART I/O connector. These types of addressable LEDs are also referred to as NeoPixels by other companies.

.. note:: LEDs can be controlled through this API while the robot is disabled.
.. note:: This library only supports WS2812B-compliant addressable LED products (strips, bars, matrixes,etc.)

Unlike the roboRIO, the Systemcore supports multiple addressable LED products at once.

HUB-75 LED matrixes, DotStar LEDs, and other types of addressable LED products are not supported by this API. In addition to that, some WS2812B-compliant strips with different timings (WS2815, etc.) may not work.

Timings:

T0H: 375ns
T0L: 875ns
T1H: 750ns
T1L: 500ns

> .. note:: LEDs can be controlled through this API while the robot is disabled.

Author: ```suggestion

```

# Addressable LEDs

Addressable LEDs have been commonly used by teams for several years for a variety of reasons.

LED strips are the most common, but other form factors such as matrixes and bars are available as well, so your code will work even if you are not using a LED strip.

They allow teams to debug robot functionality from the audience, provide a visual marker for their robot, and can simply add some visual appeal. WPILib has an API for controlling WS2812, WS2812B, and potentially other LEDs that share the same protocol with their data pin connected to the SIGNAL pin of a SMART I/O connector. These types of addressable LEDs are also referred to as NeoPixels by other companies.

LEDs can also be controlled using this API while the robot is disabled.
.. note:: This **library only supports WS2812B-compliant addressable** LEDs. HUB-75 LED matrixes, DotStar LEDs, and other types of addressable LEDs are not supported by this API. In addition to that, some WS2812B-compliant strips with different timings (WS2815, etc.) may not work.

Timings:

- T0H: 375ns

> - T0L: 875ns

Author: ```suggestion
```

- T1H: 750ns
- T1L: 500ns

> ..important:: Unlike the roboRIO, the Systemcore supports multiple addressable LED products at once. LEDs can also be controlled using this API while the robot is disabled.

Author: ```suggestion
.. important:: Unlike the roboRIO, the Systemcore supports multiple addressable LED products at once. LEDs can also be controlled using this API while the robot is disabled.
```

.. seealso:: For detailed information about powering and best practices for addressable LEDs, see the [Adafruit NeoPixel Überguide](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-neopixel-uberguide/powering-neopixels).

.. note:: WS281x LEDs (with the exception of the WS2815, see below warning) are designed for **5V**, but Systemcore ports output **3.3V**. This may cause issues with some LED strips, and a logic level shifter is needed, such as the [Adafruit Pixel Shifter](https://www.adafruit.com/product/6066).

.. note:: The 300-500 Ohm data line resistor and large 1000μF capacitor across the power pins are recommended, especially with larger quantities of LEDs. Also, use an external 5V regulator to power the LEDs, with the **grounds** tied together.

.. warning:: WS2815 LEDs (and maybe other products as well, **check the label**) are designed for **12V** but have **5V** data (see above note). The **backup line on the first strip** needs to be connected to **ground**, **not** connected to the data line despite what other guides may say.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Example wiring diagram:
![Systemcore Addressable LED](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d780b026-7c02-465b-8afa-5c2de5bee539)
```

Author: before anybody says anything, yes I know it looks bad.

# Addressable LEDs

Addressable LEDs have been commonly used by teams for several years for a variety of reasons.

LED strips are the most common, but other form factors such as matrixes and bars are available as well, so your code will work even if you are not using a LED strip.

They allow teams to debug robot functionality from the audience, provide a visual marker for their robot, and can simply add some visual appeal. WPILib has an API for controlling WS2812, WS2812B, and potentially other LEDs that share the same protocol with their data pin connected to the SIGNAL pin of a SMART I/O connector. These types of addressable LEDs are also referred to as NeoPixels by other companies.

LEDs can also be controlled using this API while the robot is disabled.

> .. note:: This **library only supports WS2812B-compliant addressable** LEDs. HUB-75 LED matrixes, DotStar LEDs, and other types of addressable LEDs are not supported by this API. In addition to that, some WS2812B-compliant strips with different timings (WS2815, etc.) may not work.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

.. note:: This **library only supports WS2812B-compliant addressable** LEDs. HUB-75 LED matrixes, DotStar LEDs, and other types of addressable LEDs are not supported by this API. In addition to that, some WS2812B-compliant strips with different timings (WS2815, etc.) may not work.
```

.. seealso:: For detailed information about powering and best practices for addressable LEDs, see the [Adafruit NeoPixel Überguide](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-neopixel-uberguide/powering-neopixels).

.. note:: WS281x LEDs (with the exception of the WS2815, see below warning) are designed for **5V**, but Systemcore ports output **3.3V**. This may cause issues with some LED strips, and a logic level shifter is needed, such as the [Adafruit Pixel Shifter](https://www.adafruit.com/product/6066).

.. note:: The 300-500 Ohm data line resistor and large 1000μF capacitor across the power pins are recommended, especially with larger quantities of LEDs. Also, use an external 5V regulator to power the LEDs, with the **grounds** tied together.

.. warning:: WS2815 LEDs (and maybe other products as well, **check the label**) are designed for **12V** but have **5V** data (see above note). The **backup line on the first strip** needs to be connected to **ground**, **not** connected to the data line despite what other guides may say.

> Example wiring diagram:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Example wiring diagram:
```

> .. image:: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2f1d7f05-f11b-4bed-bb91-267134f04f23)

Reviewer 3: I'm not familiar with the github web editor, but you'll need to commit the image to the repo, not just have it upload to the github server.

> .. image:: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2f1d7f05-f11b-4bed-bb91-267134f04f23)

Author: that makes sense

> .. image:: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2f1d7f05-f11b-4bed-bb91-267134f04f23)

Author: i'll see if I can do that

> ![Systemcore Addressable LED](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d780b026-7c02-465b-8afa-5c2de5bee539)

Author: ```suggestion
.. image:: https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2f1d7f05-f11b-4bed-bb91-267134f04f23)
```

# Addressable LEDs

Addressable LEDs have been commonly used by teams for several years for a variety of reasons.

> LED strips are the most common, but other form factors such as matrixes and bars are available as well, so your code will work even if you are not using an LED strip.

Author: ```suggestion
LED strips are the most common, but other form factors such as matrixes and bars are available as well, so your code will work even if you are not using a LED strip.
```

fixed typo

They allow teams to debug robot functionality from the audience, provide a visual marker for their robot, and can simply add some visual appeal. WPILib has an API for controlling WS2812, WS2812B, and potentially other LEDs that share the same protocol with their data pin connected to the SIGNAL pin of a SMART I/O connector. These types of addressable LEDs are also referred to as NeoPixels by other companies.

LEDs can also be controlled using this API while the robot is disabled.
.. note:: This **library only supports WS2812B-compliant addressable** LEDs. HUB-75 LED matrixes, DotStar LEDs, and other types of addressable LEDs are not supported by this API. In addition to that, some WS2812B-compliant strips with different timings (WS2815, etc.) may not work.

Timings:

- T0H: 375ns
- T0L: 875ns
- T1H: 750ns
- T1L: 500ns
.. note:: This library only supports WS2812B-compliant addressable LED products (strips, bars, matrixes,etc.)

..important:: Unlike the roboRIO, the Systemcore supports multiple addressable LED products at once. LEDs can also be controlled using this API while the robot is disabled.

> T0H: 375ns

Author: ```suggestion
```

They allow teams to debug robot functionality from the audience, provide a visual marker for their robot, and can simply add some visual appeal. WPILib has an API for controlling WS2812, WS2812B, and potentially other LEDs that share the same protocol with their data pin connected to the SIGNAL pin of a SMART I/O connector. These types of addressable LEDs are also referred to as NeoPixels by other companies.

LEDs can also be controlled using this API while the robot is disabled.
.. note:: This **library only supports WS2812B-compliant addressable** LEDs. HUB-75 LED matrixes, DotStar LEDs, and other types of addressable LEDs are not supported by this API. In addition to that, some WS2812B-compliant strips with different timings (WS2815, etc.) may not work.

Timings:

- T0H: 375ns
- T0L: 875ns
- T1H: 750ns
- T1L: 500ns
.. note:: This library only supports WS2812B-compliant addressable LED products (strips, bars, matrixes,etc.)

..important:: Unlike the roboRIO, the Systemcore supports multiple addressable LED products at once. LEDs can also be controlled using this API while the robot is disabled.

> 	In addition to that, some WS2812B-compliant LEDs with different timings (WS2815, etc.) may not work.

Author: ```suggestion

```

They allow teams to debug robot functionality from the audience, provide a visual marker for their robot, and can simply add some visual appeal. WPILib has an API for controlling WS2812, WS2812B, and potentially other LEDs that share the same protocol with their data pin connected to the SIGNAL pin of a SMART I/O connector. These types of addressable LEDs are also referred to as NeoPixels by other companies.
.. note:: This **library only supports WS2812B-compliant addressable** LEDs. HUB-75 LED matrixes, DotStar LEDs, and other types of addressable LEDs are not supported by this API. In addition to that, some WS2812B-compliant strips with different timings (WS2815, etc.) may not work.

Timings:

- T0H: 375ns
- T0L: 875ns
- T1H: 750ns
- T1L: 500ns
.. note:: LEDs can be controlled through this API while the robot is disabled.
.. note:: This library only supports WS2812B-compliant addressable LED products (strips, bars, matrixes,etc.)

Unlike the roboRIO, the Systemcore supports multiple addressable LED products at once.

..important:: Unlike the roboRIO, the Systemcore supports multiple addressable LED products at once.

> 	Unlike the roboRIO, the Systemcore supports multiple addressable LED products at once.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> Unlike the roboRIO, the Systemcore supports multiple addressable LED products at once.

Author: ```suggestion

```

   .. tab-item:: Java
      :sync: Java

>       .. code-block:: java

Reviewer 3: These changes should be PRed to allwpilib, rather then removing the remoteliteralincludes
